Document advanced binding options (#39839)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sbo-binding-workloads-that-are-not-compliant-with-PodSpec.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * /applications/connecting_applications_to_services/binding-workloads-using-sbo.adoc

[id="sbo-binding-workloads-that-are-not-compliant-with-PodSpec_{context}"]
= Binding secondary workloads that are not compliant with PodSpec

> A typical scenario in service binding involves backing service, workload (Deployment), and {servicebinding-title}. Consider a scenario that involves a secondary workload, which can also be an application Operator, not compliant with PodSpec and is between the primary workload (Deployment) and {servicebinding-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical scenario in service binding involves configuring the backing service, the workload (Deployment), and {servicebinding-title}. Consider a scenario that involves a secondary workload (which can also be an application Operator) that is not compliant with PodSpec and is between the primary workload (Deployment) and {servicebinding-title}.
```
This is a little bit confusing to me as it's currently worded. I've made a few suggestions, but feel free to modify as needed if I've changed the meaning too much,

Author: Good catch! Thanks a lot for the suggestions.

> A typical scenario in service binding involves configuring the backing service, the workload (Deployment), and {servicebinding-title}. Consider a scenario that involves a secondary workload (which can also be an application Operator) that is  not compliant with PodSpec and is between the primary workload (Deployment) and {servicebinding-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical scenario in service binding involves configuring the backing service, the workload (Deployment), and {servicebinding-title}. Consider a scenario that involves a secondary workload (which can also be an application Operator) that is not compliant with PodSpec and is between the primary workload (Deployment) and {servicebinding-title}.
```

> For such secondary workload resources, the location of the container path is arbitrary. For service binding, if the secondary workload in a CR is not compliant with the PodSpec, you must specify the location of the container path. This helps in projecting the binding data into the container path specified in the secondary workload of the `ServiceBinding` CR, for example, when you do not want the binding data inside a pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For such secondary workload resources, the location of the container path is arbitrary. For service binding, if the secondary workload in a CR is not compliant with the PodSpec, you must specify the location of the container path. Doing so projects the binding data into the container path specified in the secondary workload of the `ServiceBinding` CR, which you might want to do if you do not want the binding data inside a pod.
```
- `This helps` - What does `This` refer to in this sentence? There's no direct antecedent, so I'm not sure what the sentence is referring to. See the "Grammar" section of the ISG for more information: e.g. `Make the subject of a sentence clear.`
- `helps` doesn't seem like the right word to use if the specifying the location of the container path is required.
- My edit shows one possible way to clarify the relationship between the different pieces of information, though maybe it alters the meaning too much.

Author: Yes, agree, thanks for pointing this out. I have implemented "Doing so projects". Retaining the last sentence as is as changing this to  "Which you can do if" alters the meaning.

{servicebinding-title} provides an option to configure the value of where the container path or secret path is and bind these paths at a custom location. This option is available only for the `binding.operators.coreos.com` API group when the binding data is projected as environment variables.

=== Configuring the custom location of the container path

> Consider a secondary workload CR, which is not compliant with the PodSpec, with containers at the `spec.containers` path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a secondary workload CR that is not compliant with the PodSpec and has containers located at the `spec.containers` path:
```

Author: Yes, you are correct. 100%

This section is specifically for the secondary workloads that are not compliant with PodSpec. Hence I am retaining ", which" everywhere and ignoring your suggestions.

.Example: Secondary workload CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "operator.sbo.com/v1"
kind: SecondaryWorkload
metadata:
    name: secondary-workload
spec:
    containers:
    - name: hello-world
      image: quay.io/baijum/secondary-workload:latest
      ports:
      - containerPort: 9966
----

> The following example shows how to configure the value of where the `spec.containers` path is by specifying it in the `ServiceBinding` CR and bind this path at a `spec.application.bindingPath.containersPath` custom location:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the `spec.containers` path by specifying a value in the `ServiceBinding` CR and to bind this path to a `spec.application.bindingPath.containersPath` custom location:
```
The syntax here is a bit wordy and confusing. The suggested edit (I hope) clarifies the meaning, though I hope it doesn't alter that meaning.

Author: Absolutely, This looks so much better!! Thanks, @bburt-rh :)

.Example: `ServiceBinding` CR with the `spec.containers` path in a custom location
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: binding.operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceBinding
metadata:
    name: spring-petclinic-rest
spec:
    services:
    - group: postgres-operator.crunchydata.com
      version: v1beta1
      kind: PostgresCluster
      name: hippo
      id: postgresDB
    - group: ""
      version: v1
      kind: Secret
      name: hippo-pguser-hippo
      id: postgresSecret
    application: <1>
      name: spring-petclinic-rest
      group: apps
      version: v1
      resource: deployments
    application: <2>
      name: secondary-workload
      group: operator.sbo.com
      version: v1
      resource: secondaryworkloads
      bindingPath:
        containersPath: spec.containers <3>
----
<1> The sample application that points to a Deployment or any other similar resource with an embedded PodSpec.

> <2> Secondary workload, which is not compliant with the PodSpec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The secondary workload, which is not compliant with the PodSpec.
```

> <3> Custom location of the container path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The custom location of the container path.
```

After you specify the location of the container path, {servicebinding-title} generates the binding data, which becomes available in the container path specified in the secondary workload of the `ServiceBinding` CR.

> The following example shows the `spec.containers` path, which is updated  with the `envFrom` and `secretRef` fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the `spec.containers` path with the `envFrom` and `secretRef` fields:
```
The passive voice in the relative clause at the end makes this a bit confusing. What or who is actually updating these fields? It's not clear to me. My edit might help, but maybe it changes the meaning too much

Author: The fields are updated by the Service Binding Operator. But I like the revision so going with your suggestion.

.Example: Secondary workload CR with the `envFrom` and `secretRef` fields
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "operator.sbo.com/v1"
kind: SecondaryWorkload
metadata:
    name: secondary-workload
spec:
    containers:
    - env: <1>
      - name: ServiceBindingOperatorChangeTriggerEnvVar
        value: "31793"
      envFrom:
      - secretRef:
          name: secret-resource-name <2>
      image: quay.io/baijum/secondary-workload:latest
      name: hello-world
      ports:
      - containerPort: 9966
      resources: {}
----
<1> Unique array of containers with values generated by the {servicebinding-title}. These values are based on the backing service CR.
<2> Name of the `Secret` resource generated by the {servicebinding-title}.

=== Configuring the custom location of the secret path

> Consider a secondary workload CR, which is not compliant with the PodSpec, with only the secret at the `spec.secret` path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a secondary workload CR that is not compliant with the PodSpec with only the secret at the `spec.secret` path:
```
Again, that relative clause confuses me. It makes it sound like all secondary workload CRs are not compliant.

Author: Yes, it is correct. so ignoring your revision here.

.Example: Secondary workload CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "operator.sbo.com/v1"
kind: SecondaryWorkload
metadata:
    name: secondary-workload
spec:
    secret: ""
----

> The following example shows how to configure the value of where the `spec.secret` path is by specifying it in the `ServiceBinding` CR and bind this path at a `spec.application.bindingPath.secretPath` custom location:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure `spec.secret` path by specifying a value in the `ServiceBinding` CR and to bind this path at a `spec.application.bindingPath.secretPath` custom location:
```

.Example: `ServiceBinding` CR with the `spec.secret` path in a custom location
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: binding.operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceBinding
metadata:
    name: spring-petclinic-rest
spec:
...
    application: <1>
      name: secondary-workload
      group: operator.sbo.com
      version: v1
      resource: secondaryworkloads
      bindingPath:
        secretPath: spec.secret <2>
...
----

> <1> Secondary workload, which is not compliant with the PodSpec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Secondary workload that is not compliant with the PodSpec.
```

Author: Taking the 1st part, but ignoring the latter part :)

> <2> Custom location of the secret path that contains the name of the `Secret` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The custom location of the secret path that contains the name of the `Secret` resource.
```

After you specify the location of the secret path, {servicebinding-title} generates the binding data, which becomes available in the secret path specified in the secondary workload of the `ServiceBinding` CR.

> The following example shows the `spec.secret` path, which is updated  with the `binding-request` value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the `spec.secret` path with the `binding-request` value:
```
